SPEAKER_00: A radiation machine gave one patient roughly 100 times the intended dose.
SPEAKER_00: The manufacturer said it was impossible.
SPEAKER_00: Then it happened again.
SPEAKER_00: The Therac-25 replaced physical safety interlocks with software checks.
SPEAKER_00: During fast data entry, a race condition could leave the machine in the wrong state and fire a full power beam with no filter.
SPEAKER_00: Nobody caught it because the code had been reused from older machines, and reused code felt like tested code.
SPEAKER_00: Operators reported errors.
SPEAKER_00: The manufacturer insisted the machine was safe.
SPEAKER_00: More patients were burned before the pattern was treated as real.
SPEAKER_00: The disaster was not just bad code.
SPEAKER_00: It was a system with no independent safety layer, no quick way to believe field reports, and no design for software being wrong.
SPEAKER_00: That is how small causes become massive consequences.